2-Year Full Time Program
MBA in Human Resource Management

with Minor in Artificial Intelligence for Business

The greatest asset of any business is its people. Human Resource professionals help guide organisationswith
sound practices—hiring the right people, training them to be effective and developing strategies to motivate
and inspire. Through our MBA in Human Resource (HR) Management program, developed in collaboration with
the Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM], students will explore the essential elements of HR
management and how it contributes to organisational goals. Emphasis throughout the course Is placed on the
strategic role of HR in today’s business environment.

Program Highlights

As businesses become more
competitive and legislative changes
grow increasingly complex, the
demand for HR professionals who
can facilitate organisational change
continues to rise.

Our MBA in HR program, designed
by industry experts, incorporates all
the elements of modern HR courses.
Our program provides both
theoretical and practical insights
into the field of human resources,
along with current, employer-valued
perspectives.

You will apply core competencies

of organisational effectiveness,
including staffing, employee & labour
relations, compensation, training and
development, health & safety and

HR systems management.

The Human Capital Resource Centre
(HCRC) is a Centre of Excellence in

HRM at Chitkara Business School.
This pioneering initiative is pivotal
in connecting education with
industry and facilitates a unique
mentor-mentee program that
pairs HR industry leaders with
aspiring HR professionals.

In the 1st Year, HR students
complete core and specialised

HR courses, followed by an
internship at a blue-chip company
in the 2nd Year. This personalised,
on-the-job training bridges the
academic-industry gap, fostering
lifelong mentorship and helping
launch HR professionals into
corporate success.

Some of the functional
HR modules covered in
our MBA program are:

Recruiting & Staffing

Labour Laws

Compensation

Employee Relations

Organisational Design

Training & Development

HR Technology

D.E.1.&B.

