OUR CURRICULUM PREPARES YOU FOR
EVERY KIND OF LEADERSHIP CHALLENGE

You will experience ‘the Chitkara MBA's’ rigorous, comprehensive curriculum In which you
master the essential skills of Business Management and Leadership. After fulfilling the
requirements of the core curriculum, you will find a high degree of flexibility to tailor your
education to meet your own goals and interests through a wide variety of elective offerings
and study abroad opportunities.

THE CORE

The Chitkara MBA curriculum consists of more than 20 mandatory core courses that provide the analytical tools and
essential knowledge to lead effectively. For example, you will learn how to set direction in your strategy course, and how
to manage complex projects and enterprises in your operations course. Throughout the core course, you are taught the
lessons of leading responsibly. Core courses, which make up for about 40% of a student's course of study, are usually all
taken in the first year.

ELECTIVES

A central feature of the Chitkara MBA program is its level of flexibility that enables you to customise your studies according
to your own goals. An impressive list of original elective courses comprises 40% of the curriculum, which means that you
begin to design your own course of study in the first year of the program itself. You may choose from a wide variety of
constantly evolving electives and dual degree offerings with the partner Universities globally.

GLOBAL PERSPECTIVE

Global experience Is an integral aspect of the Chitkara MBA experience. Global business is part of many courses, including
courses with a specific focus on international topics, such as Global Strategy and Multinational Enterprises and doing
business in China, Marketing in Gulf and Islamic Banking. You are encouraged to take advantage of international
opportunities, such as spending a semester abroad, attending international seminars, planning study trips to other
countries during breaks, or serving as a consultant through the International Business Development Program.

LEARNING BEYOND THE CLASSROOM

Providing students with hands-on exposure to real-world business situations is a key strength of the Chitkara MBA
Program. You are required to take an experiential course that emphasises innovative leadership. Additional experiential
learning activities are required in many courses. You can also participate in numerous out-of-classroom opportunities that
build upon your leadership skill set. Teamwork is emphasised throughout, including skill development and group coaching
on how to be optimally effective in teams.

17 | Chitkara University
