B.E. in Artificial Intelligence & Machine Learning
in Academic Mentorship with Deakin University

Gain the knowledge and skills required to design, develop and evolve software solutions
that harness the latest advances in Al with a 4-Year B.E. in Artificial Intelligence & Machine

Learning with academic mentorship from Deakin.

ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE

Artificial Intelligence (Al) is driving digital disruption
through the development of smart systems and machines
capable of performing tasks that typically require human
intelligence. From self-driving cars to the proliferation of
smart assistants, Al is a growing part of everyday life. This
specialised four year course prepares you with the
knowledge and skills required to design, develop and
evolve computational solutions that harness the latest
advances in Al.

You will study up-to-the-minute trends, insights and
emerging topics to ensure you graduate with a highly
relevant skill set that is sought after by employers across
the globe. You will explore different Al tools and
techniques as you learn key concepts and deep dive into
advanced topics in machine learning, language and
speech processing, and robotics.

The Bachelor of Artificial Intelligence (Honours) gives you
ample opportunity to sharpen your skill set under the
guidance and direction of our supportive teaching staff. In
the beginning you'll explore fundamental concepts across
mathematical modelling and programming, before diving
into more advanced topics in data wrangling, machine
learning, natural language and speech processing,
robotics and Al.

The curriculum and the academic mentorship provided by
Deakin means that students at Chitkara University
develop knowledge and skills far beyond programming
and mathematical modelling. You will acquire niche skills
in robotics, Al, and cyber-physical computing, the
demand of the future world. With a 4-year Artificial
Intelligence degree from Chitkara University in India or
Deakin in Australia, you will be ahead of your league in
shaping the next digital transformations.

PROGRAM HIGHLIGHTS

This program is jointly developed by mapping
Chitkara University’s B.E. in Artificial Intelligence &
Machine Learning to the curriculum of the Bachelor
of Artificial Intelligence (Honours) degree at
Deakin, so that students can seamlessly transfer
with ‘Recognition of Prior Learning’ and receive the
same learning outcomes and a globally-recognised
degree i.e. Bachelor of Artificial Intelligence
(Honours) from Deakin.

Study and apply your education in superlative
infrastructure at both Chitkara University in India
and Deakin in Australia.

High school students will also learn an applied
Australian pedagogy when they start closer to
home before opting to transfer after two years

to Deakin in Australia. Besides tuition fees, a
student will also save on boarding and lodging
costs when they stay in their home country for

the first two years.

Conditional Letter of Offer from Deakin is issued to
all students at the start of the program who wish to
transfer to Deakin (based on conditions) after two
years of their study at Chitkara University. Students
will be coached for the English language
proficiency requirement (IELTS) during the first
two years of their studies at Chitkara University.
Your learning outcomes from the first two years of
study at Chitkara University will be similar to those
studying at Deakin in Australia. This prepares you
for better academic success, should you transfer in
the third year to the Bachelor of Artificial
Intelligence (Honours) at Deakin.

