4-Year B.E. Computer Science Program

with specialisation in

FULL STACK DEVELOPMENT

Our specialisation in Full Stack Engineering is designed for students aiming to begin their careers in the IT industry
by mastering a full stack of multiple technologies. The program builds the ability to architect high-impact solutions,
envision and design innovative products, solve complex problems and work effectively across cross-functional teams.
It develops strong skills in high-demand areas such as SDLC, application development for web, mobile and cloud

and DevOps.

SOME IMPORTANT COMPONENTS OF THIS COURSE WILL BE

e Overview of Full Stack Engineering
Overview of the modern application landscape; Typical structure of an end-to-end application: components and
connections; Design considerations and implementation choices; Case study for each of the topics discussed.

e@ Web Development
Components of front-end web application development: User interfaces, rendering, Document Object Model
Event and State handling; Languages/tools such as HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX; Web Apps Development
frameworks; Components of back-end web development: Web Server essentials; Server Side scripting; REST
architecture; Database interactions; Integration with code repositories.

@ Mobile Application Development
Mobile application building blocks such as the screens (UI), background services; Communication between
the application components; Application development using native multi-platform development; Interaction
of applications with Internet resources, REST APIs, databases; Unit testing of applications; Integration with
code repositories.

e@ Cloud Native Development
Basics of cloud computing; Different types of services; Virtual machines vs Containers deployment;
Characteristics of cloud native application; Elements to build cloud-native applications; Cloud native architecture
and micro-services; Design, decomposition of applications to micro-services; Developing micro-services;
Interactions with data services and databases.

e Agile and DevOps
Overview of Agile methodology: Scrum, Test driven development, DevOps, Continuous Integration/Continuous
Delivery (CI/CD); Code repository: Multi-user, distributed development, version control; Continuous inspection of
code quality; Build and build tools; Automated Testing; Integration tools; Implementing CI/CD.

@ Deployment of Micro-services 2
Containerising applications by creating container configuration files and build processes; Manage deploying,
scaling, and updating applications with micro-services using container management platforms such as
Kubernetes; Configure and launch auto-scaling, self-healing clusters; Best practices for container management,
when architecting and developing new microservices.

@ Capstone Project
Full stack applications demonstrating the UI, server and database components of an end-to-end multi-user
application; Usage of one or more well-known development frameworks; Demonstration of scalability and
reusability by applying design concepts such as microservices and container-based deployment on the cloud;
Demonstration of compliance with principles of agile and CI/CD.

CAREER OPTIONS

Full Stack Developers design complete apps and websites. They work on all facets of development from front-end
to back-end, database, debugging and testing. Full Stack Developers are more sought after because of their
expertise in multiple technologies. They can handle all aspects of development and it can result in a more seamlessly
created product.

CHITKARA ENGINEERING | 67
