Inter-disciplinary
Engineering Programs

Students who wish to pursue careers in these diverse and inter-disciplinary fields, or go onto graduate school,
are best served by an Undergraduate Education somewhat different from that offered by traditional Engineering
programs. The Interdisciplinary Engineering track at Chitkara University is one such program that provides the
student with the opportunity to define their own unique engineering expertise.

Many of today’s most pressing issues demand solutions that defy traditional academic boundaries. Real progress
requires incorporating perspectives from business, science, arts and the humanities. To encourage creative
problem-solving, Chitkara University has developed some of the most innovative and flexible programs in

higher education.

Our unique inter-disciplinary programs blend engineering with fields of study with Chitkara Business School,
Chitkara Design School and other schools of the University. Alumni go on to create and follow their own
intellectual and professional paths in areas such as law, medicine, business, academia and government.
Multi-disciplinary engineering degree programs allow students to develop unique skill sets and specialise in areas
that may not be provided in traditional degree programs. Such specialisations are driven by emerging technical
fields or by a student's desire to have an immersive multi-disciplinary experience.

Delivering employability skills is a key focus of ours. The broad-based Engineering Education benefits our students,
alumni and industry. Modules are taught cross-departmentally ensuring that our graduates become agile,
interdisciplinary engineers that are sought after across a range of industries. You will find our graduates working
in renowned companies all over the world. Google, Amazon, IBM, Microsoft and Accenture are just some of the
companies hiring our interdisciplinary Engineering graduates.

Your career choices with a degree in Inter-disciplinary Engineering will be tailored as your degree program. Nearly
every industry requires engineers with multi-disciplinary skillsets and you will have a unique opportunity to target
positions that require multi-disciplinary engineers.

HARNESS THE POWER OF LIBERAL ARTS

Chitkara University takes a holistic approach towards technical education and is looking to provide courses on
history, culture, communication, diversity and so on to provide soft skills to our Engineering graduates.
Chitkara University’s strong liberal arts core curriculum provides students with invaluable skills needed by all
engineers to excel not only in their professional careers, but in all aspects of life.

The core offers instruction in diverse subject areas as writing, history, philosophy, theology, social science and

a foreign language. By integrating Engineering and Liberal Arts courses, students are also well prepared to work
on complex technical problems that require multi-disciplinary teams to obtain effective solutions.

The development of written and oral communication skills is emphasised throughout the curriculum. The total
experience provided in our curriculum is devised to enable Chitkara University Engineering students to develop
creative solutions to technical problems and communicate these effectively while engaged in detailed analysis
and design as well as Engineering project management.

