4-Year B.E. Computer Science Program

with specialisation in

DATA SCIENCE & ANALYTICS

Our 4-Year B.E. Computer Science program with a specialisation in Data Science & Analytics is designed to meet the
surging demand for professionals with advanced analytical and technical expertise. Today, industries across finance,
healthcare, retail, manufacturing and energy rely heavily on data science to extract actionable insights from vast,
complex data sets. Our program equips students to uncover business opportunities, optimise operations, enhance
customer experiences and drive strategic decisions that deliver competitive advantage and profitability.

Data Scientists need expertise in the three core areas: Computer Science, Mathematics and Information Management.
They also need good critical thinking and effective communication skills. Our inter-disciplinary Engineering curriculum
emphasises the core areas of Data Science, including courses in Programming, Math, Statistical Modelling, Machine
Learning and Data Management. Students learn all the aspects of the Data Science process from data collection and
data understanding to model building and model validation and develop communication and critical thinking skills
through real world applications.

The specialisation in Data Analytics equips students with the skills to draw out intelligent analysis of data, which is

a crucial component in numerous business applications and supporting business decisions. The program is designed
to cater to the ever-changing needs and demands of the industry. Data Analysis experts are among the most
sought-after professionals in IT sector with demand for skilled technocrats in that field outpacing other IT jobs by a
wide margin.

SOME IMPORTANT COMPONENTS COVERED IN THIS PROGRAM ARE:

e@ Data Science principles, tools, and techniques to solve “real world” business problems and suggest suitable
solution with relevant findings.

@ Recognise issues in everyday business; apply Data Science for better understanding of data-driven management
decisions to help get an edge over competition.

e Provide insights into leading analytic practices, design and lead iterative learning and development cycles.

@ Produce new and creative analytic solutions, which can become a part of any business core deliverables.

@ Get insights on how to improve business results by building data-fuelled products.

SOME IMPORTANT SKILL SETS TAUGHT IN THIS SPECIALISATION:
Predictive Analytics | Data Analysis & Management | Data Visualisation | Business Intelligence | SAS Programming
Programming tools like R, Python

CAREER OPTIONS
According to NASSCOM, the Data Analytics market will reach $30 billion by the year 2030, growing eightfold from its
market worth in 2016. India alone will require over 500,000 Data Scientists, as per various industry insights.

TYPES OF ORGANISATIONS LOOKING FOR DATA ANALYSTS:

e@ Big IT companies who have an Analytics Practice-Infosys, TCS, Cognizant, Wipro, Oracle
e@ Analytics KPOs-Genpact, WNS, Evalueserve, HSBC, EXL

@ = In-house Analytics Units of large corporates-Citibank, Dell, HP, Soencers, Sears

@ Core Analytics firms-Brainmatics, Fractal Analytics, Mu Sigma

CHITKARA ENGINEERING | 71
