4-Year B.E. Computer Science Program

with specialisation in

CLOUD COMPUTING
& VIRTUALISATION TECHNOLOGY

in academic collaboration with

aWws
SF

Chitkara University has designed the curriculum under the guidance of AWS Educate, ensuring a strong focus on
Cloud Computing and industry alignment from Year 1. This approach equips students with the skills and knowledge
needed to build successful careers in the growing fields of Cloud Computing and Virtualisation.

The proposed specialisation will prepare students to understand the emerging technologies of Cloud Computing
& Virtualisation, their principles, modeling, analysis, design, deployment and industry-oriented applications. All major
solution architectures and enabling technologies will be covered under this program.

The curriculum lays focus on introduction to Cloud Computing and its techniques, issues and services that lead to
design and development of a simple Cloud Service along with basic fundamentals. Also there would be focus on
security, standards and applications in Cloud, including Cloud Security challenges, software as a service security and
its common standards.

This program has been designed keeping the below points in consideration:

Technology Skills: Apply current technical tools and methodologies to create cloud solutions.

System Specifications: Design secure cloud information systems.

Technology Analysis: Evaluate cloud computing trends, practices, and products.

Cloud Analysis: Evaluate the potential impact of cloud-based information systems on business processes.
Project Management: Apply project management practices, tools, and methods to cloud solutions.
Professional Development: Recognise the ethical considerations for IT professionals locally and globally.

COLLABORATION WITH AWS EDUCATE
Chitkara University has collaborated with AWS Educate so that our students can access AWS Certifications and start
their career in Cloud Computing & Virtualisation. Some of the topics covered under these certifications are:
e= = Align curriculum with the cloud computing skills and competencies that employers seek in working professionals.
e@ = Train faculty through professional development sessions in cloud concepts.
e Provide students with resources and training to understand and set goals towards a career path in
cloud computing.
@ Engage employers with academic institutions to build a pipeline into in-demand cloud career opportunities.

CAREER OPTIONS

All graduating Engineers with specialisation in Cloud Computing & Virtualisation find excellent placements in
companies that require specific development skills towards working with Amazon Web Services (AWS), Microsoft
Azure or Google Cloud Platform.

Some of the potential roles include:

e@ Cloud Solution Architects e@ Cloud System Administrator
@ Cloud Security Specialist @ Cloud Application Development

CHITKARA ENGINEERING | 69
