3-Year Bachelor of Science

NAUTICAL SCIENCES

Approved by
Directorate General of Shipping,
Government of India. (MT!| NO. 106025)

Nautical Studies includes not only navigation and cargo operations but also the maintenance of ships and managing
all legal and commercial matters related to the shipping industry. Deck officers ensure safety measures, including
lifesaving and firefighting operations, while playing a crucial role in navigating vessels across oceans and along
coastlines. In ports, they supervise and oversee all cargo operations, ensuring efficient and safe handling. The program
also covers maritime laws, environmental regulations, and modern shipping technologies, preparing students for
leadership roles in the dynamic and growing global maritime industry.

A Deck Officer on board a ship needs to function independently at sea for navigational watches and at port keeping
cargo watches. They must also demonstrate additional skills such as fire fighting and damage control, ship
manoeuvring and the ability to carry out rescue operations in an emergency. Further, ships are required to remain in
operation 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. All this makes the Deck Officer's job extremely challenging and demanding.

The Captain of the ship is the ultimate authority and responsible for maintaining the administration management
onboard. They are also the custodian of the cargo which is carried on their ship, thus making them liable for all legal
and commercial matters.

CAREER OPPORTUNITIES

Opportunity to work as a Deck Cadet on Merchant Ship of Indian or Foreign companies after completing the course.
On completion of the stipulated periods on the ship and passing Competency Examinations conducted by
Directorate General of Shipping, Ministry of Shipping, Government of India - Deck Cadet eventually becomes eligible
to be posted as Captain of the Ship.

As Deck Cadet - 3 Years Degree (Nautical Science) + Five Basic STCW modular courses

Third Officer / Second Officer - Specified sea service as a Deck Cadet + 2nd Mate (FG) Certification

Chief Officer - Specified sea service + First Mate (FG) course + Modular Courses + Ist Mate (FG) Certification
Master (Captain) - Specified sea service + 1 month ASM Course + Master (FG) certification.

FLOW CHART DEPICTING PROGRESS AFTER OBTAINING B.SC NAUTICAL SCIENCE

CHITKARA ENGINEERING | 101
