4-Year Bachelor of Engineering

MECHATRONICS ENGINEERING

Mechatronics Engineers typically act as the link between Technicians and Engineers and work from conception to
the completion of the project. They also assist with design, development and testing of electrical or electronic
equipment when mechanical equipment includes electrical or electronics components.

LEARNING OUTCOMES

Mechatronics Engineers work in all aspects of development of the smart machine - from design and testing right

through to manufacture. This could be in industries like robotics, medical and assistive technology, human-machine

interaction, manufacturing, unmanned aerial and ground vehicles and education.

As a Mechatronics Engineer, students can learn to:

@ Develop new solutions to industrial problems using Mechanical & Electronic processes & Computer Technology.

e@ Design and build completely new products by integrating various technologies, for example, developing robotic
vehicles for underwater exploration.

@ Build and test factory production lines introducing automation to improve existing processes.

e@ Apply Mechatronics or Automated solutions to the transfer of material, components or finished goods.

ACADEMIC FRAMEWORK

The core focus areas of the program includes:

@ Basics of Mechanical Engineering, Electronics Engineering, Computer Science, Engineering Systems and
Control Engineering.

Introduction to Robotics & Artificial Intelligence, along with Machine Vision.

Study of Fluid Power Technology - Hydraulics & Pneumatics - and its technology developments.

Study of Computer Hardware and Software.

Study properties and applications of Materials Science.

Analog/Digital Electronics and Communications.

INTRODUCTION TO ROBOTICS & ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE

A unique feature of this program is that it also covers the key concepts of Robotics and Artificial Intelligence (Al),
equipping students with the knowledge and skills to design intelligent, automated systems. The industry-led
curriculum integrates cutting-edge concepts in robotics, machine learning, and Al-driven decision-making, enabling
students to create innovative solutions for real-world challenges. With a focus on automation, efficiency, and
adaptability, students are prepared to excel in industries like manufacturing, healthcare, and autonomous systems,
driving the future of intelligent technology.

CAREER OPPORTUNITIES

Mechatronics Engineers can find a place in global enterprises developing futuristic vehicles, defence technology and
revolutionising consumer products. They may also work in smaller innovative 'high tech’ companies supplying
software and equipment and they could be product developers, work in manufacturing, or mining or defence
industries, and in government and industry research groups.

SOME OF THE FIELDS THESE GRADUATES COULD EXPLORE, INCLUDE:

Automation & Robotics | Machine Vision | Design of Subsystems for Automotive Engineering
Sensing & Control Systems | Expert Systems & Artificial Intelligence | Industrial Electronics
Consumer Products | Medical Mechatronics | Medical Imaging Systems | Structural Dynamic Systems
Computer Integrated Manufacturing Systems | Diagnostic & Reliability Techniques

CHITKARA ENGINEERING | 95
