—

\

iA

) ‘es ~ \
\Wolwod — Saka wy, SIA LAY

¥ OF OynkunCanay

NOPE

LJ| 7

Internationalisation and globalisation are key characteristics of today’s work environment. The world
has become a “Global Village” where economic, political, social and cultural dimensions are tightly intermingled.
Such a platform offers students not only considerable opportunities but also higher complexity.

Chitkara University is prepared to face these new challenges, responding to professional and international
commitments, by educating and training future Engineers to be “World-Ready” for tomorrow’s world and by
helping them develop skill sets desired by future employers.

OUR UNIQUE GLOBAL NETWORK

Chitkara University has established a unique network of more than 300+ partner Universities around the globe.
This co-operation network forms the basis for student as well as faculty exchange programs within the framework
of our educational programs.

THE INTERNATIONAL EXPERIENCE

At Chitkara University, we believe that combining a state-of-the-art education and study abroad experience is
strongly desired in today’s marketplace; it not only enhances candidates’ professional, global and inter-cultural
competence but also greatly contributes to students’ personal development. Studying abroad is also an important
opportunity to build a new network of friends and contacts from all over the world, which is a major asset in an
increasingly interdependent world. Engineering Students from Chitkara University enjoy unforgettable experiences
during their study abroad programs, such as semester exchange and summer school programs, at partner
universities across the world.

OUR INTERNATIONAL AND SUPPORTIVE STUDY ENVIRONMENT

With its growing number of international students and faculty, Chitkara University offers a international
study environment. International faculty from partner universities teach short-term courses to students of
Chitkara University during global events such as global engineering, automobile and business weeks.
