4-Year Bachelor of Engineering

COMPUTER SCIENCE & ENGINEERING

The fundamental objective of Computer Science Engineering at Chitkara University is to provide our students with

an opportunity to develop a firm foundation in Mathematics, Science and Design methodology of computing systems.
Our course curriculum, which covers design, implementation and management of information system, of both
hardware and software, has been designed keeping in mind a holistic learning approach, where students are equipped
to apply their knowledge and skillset to ‘real time’ scenarios in the field of Computer Science Engineering.

LEARNING OUTCOMES

e Design software or digital hardware system, component or process to meet targets within realistic constraints,
such as economic, environmental, social, political, ethical, health & safety, manufacturability and sustainability.

@ Gain knowledge of probability and statistics, including applications for Computer Science & Engineering.

@ Gain knowledge of Mathematics through Differential and Integral Calculus, Basic Science, Computer Science and
Engineering Sciences.

@ Gain knowledge of advanced Mathematics, including Linear Algebra, Numerical Computing Methods for

Engineering and Discrete Mathematics.

Gain knowledge of Algorithms and Data Structures.

Apply design and development principles in the construction of software systems of varying complexity.

Understand concept of programming languages.

Learn computer organisation and architecture.

Your undergraduate degree in Computer Science is designed for flexibility and will provide you with ever-increasing
opportunities to solve problems through computing. You might create your own start-up or work with one of the
well-established powerhouses of the software industry. Chitkara University professors work closely with the top
companies in the industry, so you’ll have a chance to work together with individuals and groups that are changing
the IT world.

Additionally you will be able to work side by side with some of the top minds in the business. Your professors are not
only experts in the computing field, but they are terrific mentors and will help you find the best application of your
talents and interests. In addition, you will be getting a solid liberal arts education that will enrich your technical and
scientific training and help you to become a better problem solver, team member and manager.

CAREER OPTIONS
Blue chip companies including Google, Microsoft, Amazon, Infosys and Wipro among others have been recruiting
our Computer Science Engineering graduates since the inception of the program.

Some roles for which our graduates get hired include:

Developers and Specialists in High-end Services and |T-product companies
Development Engineers, Technical Leaders and Managers

Consultants, Solution Developers and Entrepreneurs

Computing Specialists in Research Labs and Tech Providers

System / Network Performance Analysts

CHITKARA ENGINEERING | 65
