X
DEAKIN

UNIVERSITY

Secure your future

Study at a multi-award winning, internationally recognised university, and join more than 61,000 high-achieving
students who choose Deakin for its:

Excellent graduate outcomes | Practical, hands-on approach to learning | State-of-the-art facilities
Teachers with experience and influence in their field | Industry-led curriculum and real-world learning
Robust industry network | Work placement programs in Australia and overseas

Flexible study options, whether on campus or online.

Get work-ready with our industry connections and work placements

Our close ties with industry mean that you get:

@ Work placement and study abroad opportunities to graduate work-ready
@ A well-recognised qualification that stands out to employers

@ Courses matched to current industry practice.

Gain study credit through real-world experience

Get your career off to the best start by gaining skills, knowledge and networks through work experience,
and earn credit towards your degree at the same time. Depending on the course, we offer:
Workplace internships | Placements | Work-integrated learning programs.

Why you can confidently choose Deakin University:

Among the Top 1% of all Universities worldwide (Source: Shanghai Rankings Academic Ranking of
World Universities)

Ranked in the Top 50 young Universities in the world (Source: QS Top Young Universities)

Most satisfied students in the Australian State of Victoria for 11 consecutive years
(Source: Australian Graduate Survey and Graduate Outcomes Survey, QILT)

#1 University Careers Sservice in Australia
(Source: Australian Graduate Recruitment Industry Awards)

Australia’s Top-rated Tech Support
(Source: Voice Project IT Service Quality Support Benchmark Survey)

A high-quality education, excellent employment prospects and a University experience you will love, this is what
Deakin University has to offer. Deakin’s approach to learning places emphasis on practical experience and the
curriculum is informed by the best in the industry. And through unique DeakinTALENT graduate employment
services, you will be able to directly connect with employers, build your experience and prepare for your
graduate job search. As we move into an increasingly digital future, Deakin has invested in the latest technology,
state-of-the-art learning tools and facilities to ensure our students are ready for the jobs of tomorrow.

This includes electrical and renewable energy labs and design and product realisation labs. You don’t just study a
degree at Deakin - you get a life-changing experience while investing in your career.

CHITKARA ENGINEERING | 53
