CHITKARA
da ENGINEERING

At Chitkara University, our Engineering Programs will equip you with all the skills necessary
to make you employable, enterprising and entrepreneurial. Engineering graduates are some
of the most sought-after across the world and we will do our utmost to prepare you for
future success.

MEETING THE DEMANDS OF INDUSTRY
No matter which course you choose, you can be certain that its content will be current and at the forefront of
knowledge. Engineering is a rapidly advancing discipline and we want you to be ahead of the game.

KNOWLEDGEABLE & FRIENDLY FACULTY

As a Chitkara Engineering student, you'll learn from leaders in the field. Our faculty includes award-winning
scholars, determined researchers, innovative entrepreneurs and celebrated personalities. They’re experienced and
inspiring with a genuine desire to help you achieve your full potential. Our tutors have considerable industry
experience. Many of them are also actively involved in providing consultancy and knowledge transfer for local and
national companies. With extensive business links, they bring expertise and innovation into their teaching. So not
only will you gain an extensive knowledge of your subject, you will also get plenty of hands-on experience solving
real world Engineering challenges.

A REPUTATION FOR INNOVATION

Our academic expertise has given us an international reputation for innovation. Year after year, Chitkara University
has been ranked among the Top 10 Universities of the country for filing maximum patents which speaks volumes
about our research team, state-of-the-art infrastructure and intensive focus on new ideas and technologies.

HIGHLY RATED PROGRAMS

Our Engineering programs are endorsed by leading external accreditation bodies for their ability to equip you to
meet the requirements of the modern engineering environment. These accreditations include: The Institution of
Mechanical Engineers (IMechE) and The Institution of Engineering and Technology (IET).

GLOBAL ENGINEERING
Our Engineering graduates have the option to study the first 2 years of Engineering programs at
Chitkara University campus and then complete their Degree at over 100+ partner Universities across the world.

100% CAMPUS RECRUITMENT

We have established an unassailable reputation for very strong on-campus recruitments by sheer virtue of our
intensive focus on making all our graduates “industry ready”. 750+ leading Blue Chip companies visit our campus
for hiring our Engineering Graduates.

CHITKARA ENGINEERING | 13
