4-Year Bachelor of Engineering

ELECTRONICS & COMMUNICATION
ENGINEERING

The 4-Year Bachelor of Engineering program in Electronics & Communication Engineering at Chitkara University
offers a comprehensive and industry-aligned education. It covers fundamental and advanced topics including
electronic devices, communication systems, analog and digital transmission, microprocessors, satellite and microwave
communication and antennae theory. This program integrates core principles with emerging technologies like
embedded systems, VLSI, loT, and signal processing, ensuring students gain both theoretical knowledge and
hands-on experience through laboratories, projects, and internships.

Designed to meet evolving industry needs, the program prepares graduates for rewarding careers in
telecommunications, consumer electronics, automotive, healthcare, and beyond, equipping them with strong
analytical, design, and problem-solving skills to innovate and lead in a technology-driven world.

LEARNING OUTCOMES

Group design/project work is incorporated into all modules. Final year students are mandated to be a part of a team
project, within the University or outside, to facilitate hands-on learning and industry interaction.

Graduates of the program will go on to:

@ Design and maintain satellites, which bring TV, Telephone and Internet service into remote and rural regions.

@ Create advanced communication facilities to bring people together from all over the world.

e@ Develop programs for various control and communication systems.

INTRODUCTION TO ROBOTICS & ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE

A unique feature of this program is that it also covers the key concepts of Robotics and Artificial Intelligence (Al,
equipping students with the knowledge and skills to design intelligent, automated systems. The industry-led
curriculum integrates cutting-edge concepts in robotics, machine learning, and Al-driven decision-making, enabling
students to create innovative solutions for real-world challenges. With a focus on automation, efficiency, and
adaptability, students are prepared to excel in industries like manufacturing, healthcare, and autonomous systems,
driving the future of intelligent technology.

CAREER OPTIONS

There are many opportunities for Electronics & Communication Engineers as they are employed in variety of sectors
such as Telecom Industries, Civil Aviation, Development Centers in various states, Defense, NPL, AIR, Posts and
Telegraph Department, Railways, Bharat Electronics Limited, DRDO, Telecommunication, Software Engineering/IT,
Power Sector, Hardware Manufacturing, Home Appliance and VLSI Design, Television Industry and Research &
Development. Some industry roles include:

Service Engineer

Technical Director

Senior Sales Manager

Customer Support Engineer

Research & Development Software Engineer

Software Analyst

Field Test Engineer

Network Planning Engineer

Electronics & Communications Consultant

Our students have obtained prestigious placements at leading companies such as Infosys, nVidia, Texas Instruments,
Cadence and ARM, among others.

CHITKARA ENGINEERING | 79
