4-Year Bachelor of Engineering

AUTOMOBILE ENGINEERING ARAI

in collaboration with Automotive Research Association of India Progress through Research

with specialisation in

EV & HEV

Chitkara University has collaborated with Automotive Research Association of India (ARAI) to offer 4-Year
Engineering in Automobile Engineering in view of Government of India incentivising the adoption of EV and HEV
and the resultant need for professionals who can handle these emerging technologies. The collaboration brings
in Industry's best curriculum, superior program delivery, wholesome hands-on experience with in-depth
knowledge of industry best practices & top notch technical know-how, seamlessly transferred to students by

the best minds from ARAI.

ABOUT ARAI

Automobile Research Association of India (ARAI), established in 1966, is the leading automotive R&D
organisation of the country set up by the Automobile Industry with the Government of India. ARAI is an
autonomous body affiliated to the Ministry of Heavy Industries and Public Enterprises, Government of India.
The Department of Scientific and Industrial Research, Ministry of Science and Technology, Government of India,
has recognised ARAI as a Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation (SIRO). Further, ARAI is the prime
Testing and Certification Agency notified by Government of India under Rule 126 of Central Motor Vehicle Rules,
1989. ARAI has been playing vital roles in the progress of Indian automobile sector for five decades.

PROGRAM OVERVIEW

The automotive industry is changing rapidly and moving towards electrical vehicles which are set to completely
dominate the market in the next two decades. This program has been designed with these technological
developments in mind with as much emphasis on electrical side of vehicle design as the mechanical side so
graduates are well equipped for the automotive industry of the future. It will provide students with the
knowledge and skills required in the modern automotive industry, with a focus on EV and HEV.

PROGRAM STRUCTURE

Students will get to learn the fundamentals of EV and HEV in the first two and a half years at Chitkara University
after which students would go to ARAI Academy, Pune to study latest technologies and get hands-on practical
exposure in the next one and a half years. The last two semesters will be totally devoted to project work, which
shall be carried out either in the Automobile Industry or at ARAI Academy.

PROGRAM CONTENT

Our Automobile Engineering courses are taught through a combination of lectures, tutorials, group work and
workshops. In the first year, you will study modules that are all common between electrical and mechanical
engineering students. This is to ensure all underlying requisite knowledge for modern automotive engineering is
covered. Finally, you study elements of management, business and professional practice. This will develop your
initiative, and effective communication and interpersonal skills, to achieve the high level of technical leadership
required in a modern engineering environment.

SOME OF THE COURSES COVERED IN THIS HIGHLY SPECIALISED PROGRAM ARE:

Automobile Manufacturing | Automobile Electrical and Electronics | EV Thermal Systems | Automobile
Mechatronics | Electric and Hybrid Vehicles | Energy Storage Systems for EV | Artificial Intelligence
Battery | Management System | Vehicle Dynamics and Aerodynamics | Modelling and Simulation of EHV
Testing and Certification of Vehicles

CAREER OPPORTUNITIES

Manufacturing Engineer | Vehicle Testing & Homologation Engineer | Hybrid & EV Design Engineer
Research & Product Development Engineer | Vendor Development & Technical Assistance Engineer
Supply Chain & Logistics Engineer

CHITKARA ENGINEERING | 91
