B.E. in Software Engineering at Chitkara University
in Academic Mentorship with Deakin University

Create smart software systems and drive global digital transformation with a
4-Year B.E. in Software Engineering with academic mentorship from Deakin University.

SOFTWARE ENGINEERING

Software Engineering applies the knowledge and
theoretical understanding gained through computer
science to building high-quality software products.
Software Engineering is the process of analysing user
needs and designing, constructing, and testing end-user
applications that will satisfy these needs through the use
of software programming languages. It is the application
of engineering principles to software development.

Software Engineering jobs are some of the most
sought-after in the market. They are highly paid and are
continuously in huge demand. You need to be good at
coding and implementing algorithms if you want to be
a good Software Engineer. Not only does the field of
Software Engineering involve using some common
computer languages, such as C, C++, Java, Python, and
Visual Basic in an appropriate manner so intended results
may be attained, but it also leads to applying the
concepts in such a way that the development of the
software may be made effectively and efficiently.

The market place for software developers continues to
grow as new start-ups and large digital organisations
are enhancing their online presence. The demand for
skilled developers is greater than before due to the
growth in technology.

The curriculum and the academic mentorship provided by
DeakinU means that students at Chitkara University
develop knowledge and skills far beyond web, database
technologies, and desktop software patterns. You will
acquire niche skills in robotics, Al, and cyber-physical
computing, the demand of the future world. With a
4-year Software Engineering degree rom Chitkara
University in India or Deakin University in Australia,

you will be ahead of your league in shaping the next
digital transformations.

"The pathway program from

Chitkara University has been instrumental in
boosting my confidence and providing a
strong foundation. It offered ample support

and knowledge about Deakin’s academic
environment while allowing me to remain in
my home country."

Tanish Dhapola
Software Engineering student

PROGRAM HIGHLIGHTS

e This program is jointly developed by mapping

Chitkara University's B.E. in Software Engineering
to the curriculum of the Bachelor of Software
Engineering (Honours) degree at Deakin University,
so that students can seamlessly transfer with
‘Recognition of Prior Learning’ and receive the
same learning outcomes and a globally-recognised
degree i.e. Bachelor of Software Engineering
(Honours) from Deakin University.

Study and apply your education in superlative

infrastructure at both Chitkara University in India
and Deakin University in Australia.

High school students will also learn an applied
Australian pedagogy when they start closer to
home before opting to transfer after two years to
Deakin University in Australia. Besides tuition fees,
a student will also save on boarding and lodging
costs when they stay in their home country for the
first two years.

Conditional Letter of Offer from Deakin University
is issued to all students at the start of the program
who wish to transfer to Deakin University based on
conditions after two years of their study at
Chitkara University.

Students will be coached for the English language
proficiency requirement (IELTS) during the first
two years of their studies at Chitkara University.
Your learning outcomes from the first two years of
study at Chitkara University will be similar to those
studying at Deakin University in Australia. This
prepares you for better academic success, should
you transfer in the third year to the Bachelor of
Software Engineering (Honours) at Deakin
University.

